[ethereal choral music]
* *
- Once, long ago,
we lived in the human world,
the Moroi vampires
who make the rules...
- And the Dhampir Guardians,
sworn to protect
against our enemy,
the Strigoi...
- Undead vampires
who live to kill.
- Now we live
in a world of our own,
one grounded
in elemental magic
and steeped in rules no one's
challenged in centuries--
until now.
* *
- The spark of revolution can
come from anywhere,
even two unlikely friends...
- And one night
that changed everything.
* *
[eerie music]
- [breathing heavily]
[gasps]
- Remember.
- [gasps]
[ominous music]
- * Got something
coming for you *
* *
* Got something
coming for you *
[indistinct chatter]
* I don't wanna play no more *
- [grunts]
- Whoo!
- Come on, Novices.
Pick up the pace.
Only four miles to go.
You can do it.
* *
- * Beneath the shame *
- [panting]
What the fuck?
[dramatic music]
* *
- Okay,
Mia will help you prepare.
She studied up on all of this.
- When I thought
I would be queen.
- Did Rose lose
her phone privileges?
I haven't heard from her.
- I don't know.
The Guardians handle
their own punishments.
- My punishment being queen?
- After this, Mia will run
you through political tutorials
of all twelve Heads of Family.
- Mostly gossips
and backstabbers.
- The best way
to get their vote
is for them to think
you're their new best friend.
- Fine, but this entire thing
is ridiculous.
- What's ridiculous is you
not wanting to be queen.
- Why would I want
to do something
I'm completely unprepared
to do?
This was Andre's thing,
not mine.
- I think we can both agree
that you're no Andre.
- Mia.
- Sorry.
- If only he were still here,
right?
Then you'd be queen,
and everyone would still
be hopeful about the future,
and I'd have my family back.
- Hey.
Everyone is hopeful
about the future.
You're unsullied
by faction politics.
Everyone's excited about you,
at least, everyone who matters.
Now I need to head
to the Council.
Everyone's gathering to discuss
your Specialization Ceremony.
- Wait, what?
- Yeah.
It's just a nice gentle way
to get campaign season started.
Everyone loves
a good faction competition,
up on the big screen
so the entire dominion
can invest in you.
[dramatic music]
- The Queen is Air,
so the people won't like it
if you're Air too.
But Dragomirs are
usually Fire, right?
- Yeah.
Hey, Mia?
When your sister
didn't specialize,
my parents never told me
why the Council
finally stopped insisting
that she try.
- By the time
they were done with her,
even if she did specialize,
she wouldn't be capable
of using it.
* *
[music playing softly]
- Come on,
put some muscle into it.
- Bite me.
- What if I could?
- Alberta's got me doing
double chores.
Maybe that's punishment enough.
- While Lissa got off clean,
typical.
- How in the hell did
this queen thing happen?
Lissa's the least political
person in the Dominion.
She's got to be freaking out.
- You haven't talked to her?
- No.
The dorm matrons
keep blocking her calls,
and I can't get
anywhere near her
because fucking Dimitri
is keeping us separated.
- Maybe Lissa likes the idea
of being queen.
- I doubt it.
Everything sucks.
Including this couch.
It's hard as a board.
- Keeps us from getting lazy.
Want a distraction?
- No.
Yes.
[upbeat music]
* *
[eerie music]
[squelching]
- Now, as you can see,
the Strigoi's eyeball
has a high number of rods
for better night vision,
like a cat.
And the quadrate bone
down here,
allows the Strigoi
to unhinge its jaws
like a snake.
Now, their limbic system,
the area in the brain
responsible for behavior is--
is practically microscopic.
So from this, we can deduce
that they are incapable
of possessing true conscience.
- How do we know that
for certain?
- Because we listen to science.
- Okay,
but has anyone ever actually,
I-I don't know,
sat down and asked one?
[soft laughter]
- I'm curious too,
Guardian Tanner,
how does a Moroi
become a Strigoi again?
- There's no need
to repeat lessons
taught in the lower schools,
Jesse.
- No, I-I think
we could use a brushup.
One, a Strigoi turns you
by feeding you their blood.
Two, you accidentally kill
while you feed
and must pay for the mistake
with your soul.
Does anyone know number three?
Anyone? Ozera?
- That's enough, Jesse.
Class dismissed.
- Three, you choose to kill.
You choose to suck
all of the blood
out of their body
while you feed,
to be a monster.
Just like Mommy and Daddy,
eh, Ozera?
- Hey, Meredith.
I need a favor.
Can you pass Lissa
a note for me?
- [laughs] No way.
- Why?
What's the big deal?
- Strategically,
this is a no-win situation
for both of us.
I get caught, I get demerits,
I'll lose standing,
and for what?
- To do something nice
for a friend.
- We're friends now?
You don't get it, do you?
If they are separating you now,
it's probably
just to prepare you
for what's to come
when she's queen.
- We're a package deal.
Everyone knows that.
- Have you ever met
a Royal Moroi
in a high position of power
with a Dhampir best friend?
- And you wonder
why we aren't friends.
- Rose?
There's no easy way
to say this.
Um, the issue of you and Lissa
sneaking outside the wards was
raised at the Royal Council.
There's going to be a tribunal,
and the dean will preside.
- A tribunal?
So what, they wanna ship me off
to St. Jude's
or some other school?
- They aren't deciding where
you should go to school, Rose.
They want to determine
if you have a future
as a Guardian at all.
I'm sorry.
[dramatic music]
* *
- Remember.
- [gasps]
[panting]
Remember what?
[door opens]
- Oh. Your shift started early.
- As did your evening,
apparently,
Princess.
- I-I'm in kind of a bind.
- I can't let you see Rose.
Strict instructions
from the top.
- I know. I get it.
I hate it, but I get it.
What if it wasn't Rose
I was gonna go see?
[feathers flapping]
[bird tweeting]
- You're up late.
[bird tweets]
I know you've been busy,
but I've missed you.
[bird tweets]
[chuckles]
- Sonya.
- Hi, Mikhail.
- I can't find the
"Volkov Anatomical Compendium."
I'd like to check it
against the Strigoi
I've been dissecting.
- That's the seventh attack
this year, isn't it?
Seems more than a normal
seasonal spike.
- Well, that's what
I've been saying.
Not that anyone on the Council
wants to listen
to a lowly Dhampir.
"Don't scare the Royals,"
they say,
"You'll give the children
nightmares."
I'll tell you what will scare
the Royals,
Strigoi eating them
for breakfast--
- Are you wearing cologne?
- You noticed.
- I have a good nose.
- Well...
do you like it?
[tender music]
- You smell less like
a Strigoi than usual.
* *
I'll find your book.
- Maybe I can come back
for it later
when you get off work?
- Sure.
I'll have it ready for you.
* *
- I heard you spend
a lot of time here.
- Huh.
Books don't gossip about me.
- So...
I have to do my Specialization
Ceremony tomorrow.
I've only told Rose...
But I don't think
I'll be able to specialize.
- It's not totally unheard of
for someone not to know
until the ceremony--
- But it's rare.
Very rare.
When Sonya Karp
didn't specialize,
first they sent her
to the High Priestess,
then counseling,
then they sent her away
to some place
for electric shock therapy.
It took her years to be close
to normal again.
She's not even Royal.
Can you imagine
what they'll do to me?
[tender music]
- I think I can help you.
- Why do you think
I came looking for you?
* *
- I heard about the tribunal.
- I guess you think
I deserve this...
that everything's my fault.
- Not that you're asking,
but the definition
of immaturity
is blaming others
for your own failings.
I'm not the one
who put Lissa at risk
by taking her outside
of the wards.
I'm not the one
who decided your punishment.
Am I annoyed one of the most
promising young Guardians
I've ever come across is
too stubborn to see sense?
Yes.
Do I want you expelled?
No.
- No?
The image of me out there
in the Communes
doesn't give you a thrill?
- No, Rose.
My mother and sisters live
in the Communes.
That's not the life
I would wish on you.
- Well,
until the Tribunal decides
to kick me out officially...
I've got a leaderboard
to climb.
[tense music]
* *
- She's fucked, isn't she?
- I've done a spreadsheet
taking into account
the personal
and political affiliations
of all the Tribunal members.
- And?
- Even if she manages to make
it through this whole thing
without taking a verbal swing
or worse,
she doesn't stand a chance.
- What'll they do to her?
Stick her in admin?
- Send her to the Communes.
- I can hear you.
- Shouldn't you be preparing
for your reckoning?
- Oh, it's not until tomorrow.
Plenty of time
for me to kick your ass.
[intense music]
Let's go.
* *
- Show me what you got.
Yeah, there you go.
- I've been able to harness
fire since I was three,
and air and water, even earth.
I can do all the small magic
we're supposed to do,
but one just isn't
presenting itself
to be any stronger
than the other.
Of course,
Andre knew he was Fire
practically
before he could walk.
- [chuckles softly]
- My parents always said
they had a plan
in case a specialization
never materialized for me,
but without them,
there's no one between me
and shock therapy
and every other thing
they did to Sonya Karp.
- Maybe an element
is presenting itself to you.
You just can't hear it.
Here.
Try this.
[gentle music]
* *
Okay, now close your eyes.
Think about your heart.
What makes it beat?
The blood in your veins,
what makes it run?
The fire in your soul,
what feeds it?
Magic is inside of you,
inviting you to dance.
You just have to say yes.
Okay, let's get started.
[intense music]
[both grunting]
* *
- Come on, come on, come on.
[whistle shrieking]
* *
Ugh!
[both grunting]
[whistle shrieks]
- Mason, you're next. Let's go.
[grunting]
- You're fighting
like a Strigoi.
- [shouts, grunts]
[dramatic music]
* *
- Again.
- I don't need
another wind sprint
to get your point.
Don't fight like a Strigoi.
Check.
- Why did you?
- Why do you care?
- 'Cause when you're back
at number one
and taking my job,
I'd rather not see
our future queen
under the watch of someone
who can't keep a grip on it.
- How do you do that?
You have this way
of criticizing me
and complementing me
in the same breath.
- Perhaps because you have
this way of being
both extraordinary
and infuriating
all at once.
- [sighs] Fair.
- If Lissa is to be queen,
her safety is the most
important thing
to this dominion.
If you can't keep it together
in practice,
how can you hope
to possibly survive
a real world attack?
- I will, Dimitri,
because that's what I do.
I survive.
I survive car crashes and loss
and an absentee mother
and a best friend
that I'm not allowed to see,
and know-it-all Guardians
who show up out of nowhere
to ruin my life.
I will survive
whatever shit this world
keeps trying to throw at me
because that's what I do.
Because I'm strong.
And I will survive
this fucking tribunal
because there is
no other option.
- Good.
Then I'm rooting for you.
- So can we be done
with wind sprints now?
- What do you think?
[moody music]
* *
[radio playing softly]
- Lord Zeklos.
[magic whooshing]
I have special permission
to leave the Province.
- For what purpose?
- [chuckles] I'm Royal.
You don't need to know
my purpose.
- Under the laws
of the Human Treaty of 1497,
you hereby agree to traverse
only the approved roadways,
avoid any
and all human interaction
with the human species,
never reveal your identity
as a citizen
of the Moroi Dominion--
- Yeah, yeah.
I got it.
Can I go now?
[ominous music]
- Open the gate!
Go on.
[metal creaking]
* *
- It's unfortunate
that we're meeting
under these circumstances,
but the Tribunal
of Rose Hathaway
may now commence.
[intense music]
- So what's the game plan,
Rose?
- You know me.
More of a roll with the punches
kind of girl.
- You're more of a throw
the punches kind of girl,
but you can't in there.
Your entire future
is in their hands,
so live to fight another day.
[tender music]
* *
- Thanks, Mikhail.
- Rose?
* *
- I'll be surprised
she lasts a week.
The Queen will see soon enough,
not every Dragomir's fit
to sit on the throne.
- Ignore her.
Andre would be so proud of you.
They all would, as am I.
- Why?
I still don't know why she
chose me to unite the Dominion.
- You know,
the Queen was younger than you
when she first took the throne.
Court was in chaos.
It was a viper's nest
of agendas.
She didn't know a thing
about politics.
All she knew was that she
didn't want people to fight,
and her compassion worked
for a while at least.
You know, I think she sees
a bit of herself in you.
- And what will she see if
something goes wrong tonight?
- What could go wrong?
Are you thinking of Sonya?
- Victor, I know
how hard it was for her--
- Sonya was an anomaly.
We don't know why she's
the way that she is,
but you're a Dragomir.
This will be a breeze for you.
- But what if it isn't?
I mean,
what if I stand up there,
and nothing happens?
- As your godfather,
I promised your family I would
always look out for you.
So if there's any chance
you'll walk out there
and not specialize,
you need to let me know now.
I will get you out
of this Dominion tonight
before anyone can ask
questions.
So is there anything
you wanna tell me?
[tense music]
- No.
No.
I'll see you out there.
* *
[breathing shakily]
- At ease, Ms. Hathaway.
- Hi, Dean Kirova.
- Sorry to see you here.
- You and me both.
- The simple fact here, Rose,
is that over the years,
you have gotten Lissa
into trouble
more times
than you've saved her from it.
- She's my best friend.
And, yes, sometimes
we get into stuff, but...
I would die for her.
And you know that.
- I do.
But you seem to lack
the discipline
and critical thinking skills
an elite Guardian needs.
- I've trained for my entire
life to be a Guardian,
and I've been on top
of the rankings for years.
- Then tell us
why we should allow you
to stay at St. Vladimir's
and continue your training.
[tense music]
- Okay.
* *
Have I racked up a list
of infractions?
Yes.
Was some of it stupid?
Absolutely.
But I'm not just
a Guardian to her.
There's more than one way
of keeping her safe,
and I do that.
I keep her safe
in every way I can.
- [breathing heavily]
* *
[magical whooshing]
- Like right now.
I'm sorry.
- Rose, if you leave this room,
there's no coming back.
Rose!
- Lissa.
- Rose.
Wait, how did you even
get in here? Dimitri--
- Has just shown
why I should be your Guardian.
He didn't even see me.
What's wrong?
I could feel your panic.
Are you okay?
- According to Victor,
in five minutes,
I either need to walk
on that stage
and hope to hell
that I specialize,
or I pretty much need
to flee the Dominion.
I-I don't know what to do.
- Well, personally,
I vote flee,
but I've just had a bad night.
- What's going on?
- It's nothing you need
to hear about right now.
Do you really think
you can't do it?
- I don't know.
Maybe it's just the nerves
or the grief or the panic
because I know that once I do
go out there and specialize,
I'm one step closer
to becoming queen,
which I never envisioned.
- I guess you just have
to ask yourself
if this is something
that you want.
- Part of me just wants
to be free.
Living somewhere where no one
cares what element I am,
or if we're Dhampir or Moroi.
- That's perfect.
We can disappear
among the humans.
I mean, that was always
the plan anyway, right?
- Well,
minus the fugitive part.
- Oh, yeah,
just a small detail.
- But then the other part of me
is thinking about everything
Andre was gonna mean
to this Dominion.
A leader who ruled not just
for the Royal Moroi,
but for all its citizens,
including the Dhampirs.
He was gonna make this
a place you wanted to run to,
not away from.
And if I disappear,
what happens
to my brother's legacy?
There are a parade of people
dying to be on the throne
who want the exact opposite.
[dramatic music]
What if the only thing
separating this Dominion
from that fate is me?
- Well, I think...
I think that Andre would be
so proud of you right now.
And I know that there is
nothing you can't do.
So if you want to be queen,
then go out there and show them
all what you've got.
- And if I've got nothing?
- Then Victor and I
will get you out,
I promise you that.
But my money is on you.
[tearful laugh]
- Thank you.
I've missed you this week.
You staying out of trouble?
- Oh, you know me.
I'm always dancing
alongside of it.
Now, go.
Go.
Go. Go on. Go.
Go, go, go, go.
[tense music]
* *
[intense music]
[indistinct chatter]
* *
[cheers]
- My money's on Air user.
- Dragomirs are always Fire.
- Earth user, 50 mirs.
[cheers]
[suspenseful music]
* *
- [speaking Old Moroi]
[water bubbling]
[cheers]
- Fire!
[overlapping shouts]
[indistinct chatter]
- I just feel like
it'll be Fire.
[cheers]
- This isn't right.
- Fire! Fire!
- Come on!
- She's really milking it.
[wind whooshing]
- Something's wrong.
- Her magic's weak.
[magical whooshing]
[intense music]
* *
[flames roaring]
[cheers]
- You're Fire!
- She's Fire.
Like Andre.
A good omen.
[sweeping dramatic music]
* *
all: [chanting]
Lissa! Lissa! Lissa!
[cheers]
- [indistinct] for this moment.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
[intense music]
* *
- How could you do that?
- Um, you're welcome?
- I didn't thank you.
You made me a fraud.
- Half the people
in this town are frauds.
- And half of them want me
to be their queen,
but even they would shun me
if they knew
I didn't have fire,
which I don't.
Or water or any of it.
I have no real magic.
- You're nothing but magic.
- Princess.
- [whispers] I'm not sorry.
[tender music]
* *
- Thank you.
For everything today.
I know
you're just doing your job.
- It isn't always easy.
- I-I've asked around
about you.
You're one of the best
Guardians around.
Second only, maybe,
to Rose's mom.
Yet earlier...
somehow Rose slipped past you
right when I needed her most.
- Your godfather told me
protection comes in many forms.
- Something I'm just starting
to realize.
It's almost daybreak,
and your shift is over.
Your future queen demands
you go have some fun.
- Lissa.
Has anyone told you
what's happening with Rose?
[muffled club music pounding]
* *
- Hurry it up!
- All right!
- I'm hurrying!
- If they kick you out,
I'm going with you.
- That's the dumbest thing
I've ever heard.
- I'm not letting them send you
to the Communes, Rose.
- We should probably get drunk.
Bring her another
of whatever she's drinking.
- Is this you apologizing?
- Meredith, tell Rose
that she should let me
go with her
when they kick her out.
- Ah, strong optimism, Mason.
- No, he's right.
I'm fucked.
Ergo...
shots?
- Princess.
You're lucky that I must come
when summoned by a Royal,
otherwise I would've--
- Yes, I apologize,
Dean Kirova, but I'm here
to plead Rose's case.
all: [chanting]
Rose! Rose! Rose! Rose! Rose!
Rose! Rose! Rose! Rose!
- I don't need a man
to save me.
- Neither do I?
- You may pretend not to care
what people think of you,
but I know you do.
And the last thing you need
is to be caught
for the misuse of magic.
I know I was scared, and you
were scared for me, but...
do you really think
I'm not strong enough
to handle myself?
- No.
- Then why?
[tender music]
Why did you do it?
* *
[footsteps approaching]
- Don't wanna be seen
with an outcast, huh?
- You know I can't.
- It would be
politically explosive.
- And social suicide.
- And Victor would kill you.
- Victor would kill me.
- So this is just
a bad idea all around.
- Terrible.
* *
- We shouldn't do this.
- Absolutely not.
[sweeping romantic music]
* *
[muffled chanting]
[indistinct chatter]
* *
[ethereal music]
[knocking on door]
- Hey.
I'm--I'm sorry it's so late,
I just, um...
I feel like, uh...
well, I haven't been
totally clear with you.
- Sorry?
- Yesterday when I came back
for the book,
I thought we'd get together
after you finished work.
I wanted to hang out...
with you.
- [laughs weakly]
I'm sure there's a long line
of normal girls
you could hang out with.
- I don't like normal girls.
- I talk to birds.
- Okay.
- No, I mean, I talk to them,
and I'm fairly certain
they talk back.
- What do they say?
- I'm sorry?
- Do they chirp, sing,
speak French?
- Don't make fun of me.
- No, I'm not.
So you talk to birds.
Okay, so what?
You're also smart,
great with kids,
and you have a smile--
you have a smile
that lights up a room.
[tender music]
* *
- I wanna show you something.
- [inhales]
What are you doing here?
- Why didn't you tell me
about the tribunal?
- Who told you?
- Dimitri.
- Fucking Dimitri.
It was none of his business.
- Well,
you get to stay.
I mean, you're still
on serious probation,
but you're staying.
[both laughing]
- [sighs]
How?
- Well, it turns out
there is an upside
to being almost queen.
People have to listen to you.
You can thank Dimitri
for telling me.
He carried you here, you know,
in those big,
manly arms of his.
- What kind of macho shit
is that?
- He said you passed out
at the bar.
How many shots did you have?
- One.
I gave the rest to Mason.
I didn't pass out
from drinking.
I passed out from kissing.
- Mason?
- Christian fucking Ozera?
- What?
- You were kissing
Christian Ozera,
and therefore, for some reason
I can't really explain,
I was kissing him too.
I was in your head.
- Okay.
Okay, this is crazy.
We need to figure this out.
- No shit.
[dramatic music]
- [sighs]
[high-pitched ringing]
[sunlight sizzling]
- For all the perks
of being Moroi,
that must be annoying.
- It is.
Mm.
Thank you.
I fell asleep and got caught.
- What brings you to the wrong
side of the tracks?
- I'm the confidant
of the future queen.
Where she goes, I go.
What happened to your arm?
- Rose Hathaway had a bad day.
- Rose Hathaway is a menace.
- Gets me out of training
for a few days.
- What Guardian doesn't
enjoy training?
- This Guardian.
I prefer to fight with words.
- I'll bear that in mind.
- I'm Meredith.
- I know.
- We'll get
to the bottom of it,
but Warden Mia is out there
waiting to escort me home.
You gonna be able to sleep?
- Probably.
If your brother would stop
haunting my dreams.
- Wait, what?
- Every time,
it's the same one.
You're outside alone.
You see a dead body.
Andre's there,
and he tells you to--
- Remember.
Those aren't your dreams.
They're mine.
[tense music]
* *
- These pins are
where each recent Strigoi
was sighted
outside the Academy.
They're a sequence.
They hit potential weak points,
gates, doors.
- Wait, what are you--
- The Strigoi
that we've encountered lately
haven't just been
opportunistic.
They've been planning.
- Strigoi don't plan.
- What if they do?
What if they've been
testing the wards?
If they find a weakness
in the magic
that reenforces
the walls of the city,
the entire capitol
could be compromised.
We'd be at risk of attack.
* *
[magic whooshing]
- * Grab the blade
as it passes by *
* While you watch the demons
as they multiply *
* While you kiss the same,
keep the ledger dry *
* While you get high
on your own supply *
[tense music]
* *
- Hello, anyone there?
Oh, great.
- Hey! What are you doing?
Get back in your car.
- I wouldn't have gotten
out of my car
if you were doing your job.
You're not supposed to leave
the gate unattended.
- I didn't.
[leaves rustling]
[ominous music]
[growling, squelching]
* *
Get inside.
Now.
* *
- [growls]
[snarling]
- I said now!
- [growls]
Ah!
- Get him through the wards!
[engine revs]
Go!
- * As you turn to nothing *
* And your will is broken *
* Along with your disguise *
- [growls]
- * Waiting as your world
is fading *
* With every breath
you're taking *
* You lay down your surprise *
* *